Herbal oils, salves and lotions

General recipe for herbal oils:
Look at allowed % of the herb; 
i.e. a ratio of 1:5 in recipes means 20% or 200 grams per liter of carrier oil
All material (leaves, flowers, bark, ...) needs to be cut finely.
The carrier oil to be used is preferably relatively flavorless and inexpensive (i.e. sunflower oil, pomace olive oil, corn oil ). Let the herb sit in the carrier oil for 6 weeks (unless otherwise indicated), placing it in an area that is exposed to the sun at least now and then (windowsill, ...), then strain off the herb from the carrier oil. Store the liquid in dark bottles. Can be used for 1 year.
In recipes where multiple herbal oils are used: do not combine both in a single bottle of 1 liter ! Rather, reserve a dark 1 liter bottle for each and add in each the required amount of herbs, and combine them later in the ratio indicated (i.e. 50%-50% or 33%-33%-33%)

General recipe for salves:
For making salves, you first make the herbal oil(s), and then add 12,5% (125 grams) of beeswax per liter of herbal oil used. Heat up the whole untill it is melted together in a double boiler (bain marie). The double boiler prevents the heat building up above 100° Celsius. Let it cool until it solidifies again.

There are also other methods to make salve (i.e. using petroleum jelly, lanolin, ...) but these ingredients are either not natural or animal-based (beeswax is vegan).

General recipe for lotions:
A lotion is basically a tincture, diluted with water (ratio 1:4)

Herbal oil for relaxation and massage, and increasing blood flow to particular areas
This herbal oil is special as white camphor oil (essential oil) is easy to obtain and inexpensive.
So no need to make this starting from the herb.
White camphor oil (essential oil), dilute with a carrier oil in a ratio of 11%, or hence 110 ml of white camphor essential oil on 1 liter of carrier oil


Herbal oil for wrinkles, and firming up body parts:
This herbal oil is special as both the Oenothera biennis and the Borago officinale oil is oobtained by pressing the oil from the seed (semen). As such, both herbal oils need to be bought. After obtaining the oils from a store, it needs to be "diluted" with a carrier oil:
Oenothera biennis oil needs to be diluted with a carrier oil in a ration of 1:5 (20%), or hence 200 ml of Oenothera oil is added on 1 liter of carrier oil
Borago officinale oil needs to be diluted with a carrier oil in a ratio of 8%, or hence 80 ml of Oenothera oil is added on 1 liter of carrier oil
Combine both oils in ratio 50%-50% before when you intent to use the herbal oil.
Recipe based on: Groot Handboek Geneeskrachtige Planten by Geert Verhelst

Herbal oil for contusion / distortion / hematoma (no open wounds!): 
200 grams (=20%) of Arnica montana flowers (flos) on 1 liter of carrier oil
Leave in the herbs for 6 weeks after which you strain off the herb and store in dark bottles.
add 50 ml (=5%) of Rosmarinus officinale essential oil per liter of carrier oil when you intent to use the 1 liter of oil (so as to keep both ingredients separately for as long as possible, for economic reasons)
Recipe based on: Groot Handboek Geneeskrachtige Planten by Geert Verhelst

Salve for skin cracks / wounds / injuries (open wounds): 
250 grams (=25%) of lowering tips, crushed flowers of Hypericum perforatum on 1 liter of carrier oil
330 grams (=33%) of flower heads (without sepals) of Calendula officinale on 1 liter of carrier oil
200 grams (=20%) of rasped and crushed root of Symphytum officinale on 1 liter of carrier oil
Leave in the herbs for Hypericum and Symphytum for 6 weeks, but only 3 weeks for Calendula after which you strain off the herb. Store in dark bottles. Combine in the ratio 33%-33%-33% when you intent to make the salve. For each liter of oil thus combined in the ratio 33%-33%-33%, combine with 125 grams of beeswax (=12,5%) and heat up oil and beeswax in a double boiler untill it is melted. Then, put in a dark jar.
Recipe based on: Groot Handboek Geneeskrachtige Planten by Geert Verhelst

Lotion for insect bites / zips /eczema: 
200 grams (=20%) of leaves (folia) and bark (cortex) of Hamamelis virginiana on 1 liter of ethanol. Dilute with water in a ratio of 1:4
Recipe based on: Groot Handboek Geneeskrachtige Planten by Geert Verhelst
